<html>
<head>
	<title>Terms</title>
</head>
<body>

<div><b>Terms of Submission</b></div> 

<div><b>1.</b></div> 
<div><b>TERMS</b></div> 
<div>1.</div> 
<div>The  WWARN project is dependent on  the  submission  of data about individual</div> 
<div>patients' responses to anti-malarial drug treatment. WWARN respects the rights of</div> 
<div>researchers and institutions who may wish to share their data with WWARN.</div> 
<div>2.</div> 
<div>These terms of submission (which form part of the WWARN website's terms of use) </div> 
<div>provide a framework for sharing data with WWARN, explaining the terms on which</div> 
<div>you may use the site to submit data to WWARN and how WWARN will use that data.</div> 
<div>Please read these terms carefully before submitting data to WWARN: by submitting </div> 
<div>data to WWARN, you indicate that you accept these terms and you agree to abide by</div> 
<div>them.</div> 
<div><b>2.</b></div> 
<div><b>WWARN</b></div> 
<div>1.</div> 
<div>WWARN is a  project developed  by an international collaboration  of research </div> 
<div>institutions and  which  is currently hosted  by the  University of Oxford. The </div> 
<div>collaborative group consists of five WWARN project teams, each of which will have</div> 
<div>responsibility for the analysis of submitted data in relation to a defined topic (each a</div> 
<div>WWARN module).</div> 
<div>2.</div> 
<div>By submitting data to WWARN you agree that the WWARN project teams will have</div> 
<div>access to your data on substantially the same terms as granted in these terms of</div> 
<div>submission. Current details of the  WWARN project teams can  be  viewed  here.</div> 
<div><b>3.</b></div> 
<div><b>DATA</b></div> 
<div>1.</div> 
<div>In order to ensure compliance with its legal and ethical obligations, WWARN requires</div> 
<div>that all submitted data:</div> 
<div>(a) has been obtained in accordance with any laws and ethical approvals applicable</div> 
<div>in its country of origin;</div> 
<div>(b) has been obtained with the knowledge and consent of the individual to which it</div> 
<div>relates; and</div> 
<div>(c) has been  anonymised, so  that any individual to  which  it relates cannot be</div> 
<div>identified from it.</div> 

 

<div>2</div> 
<div>2.</div> 
<div>You must have the authority to submit the data to be used in accordance with these </div> 
<div>terms of submission.</div> 
<div>3.</div> 
<div>WWARN reserves the discretionary right to delete any submitted data, in whole or in</div> 
<div>part, if it contains any information that would identify an individual.</div> 
<div>4.</div> 
<div>In order to protect your data and safeguard the rights of the individuals to which it</div> 
<div>relates, WWARN will take appropriate technical and organisational measures against</div> 
<div>unauthorised or unlawful processing of any submitted data and against the accidental</div> 
<div>loss or destruction of, or damage to, submitted data.</div> 
<div><b>4.</b></div> 
<div><b>RIGHTS</b></div> 
<div>1.</div> 
<div>You will continue to own your data. WWARN will not claim any rights of ownership in</div> 
<div>any data you may submit but, in order to allow WWARN to operate, it requires your</div> 
<div>permission to use the data for the purposes set out in these terms of submission.</div> 
<div>2.</div> 
<div>By submitting data, you grant to WWARN a right to use, copy, reformat and to make </div> 
<div>further analyses of your data in accordance with these terms of submission.</div> 
<div>3.</div> 
<div>You may, at any time and for any reason, withdraw WWARN's right to use your data,</div> 
<div>but you accept that your data may have been used to prepare and/or create reports</div> 
<div>and analyses and that these reports and analyses cannot be withdrawn once they</div> 
<div>have been made available.</div> 
<div>4.</div> 
<div>In the event that WWARN transfers from the University of Oxford to another entity,</div> 
<div>the rights you grant to WWARN will be transferred to that entity.</div> 
<div><b>5.</b></div> 
<div><b>USE OF DATA</b></div> 
<div>1.</div> 
<div>Your data will be  stored  on  a  secure server and  will be  accessible  only to  you,</div> 
<div>anyone you may nominate and WWARN.</div> 
<div>2.</div> 
<div>Your data may be further processed by WWARN and used in combination with other</div> 
<div>data to create aggregated data.</div> 
<div>3.</div> 
<div>WWARN may use aggregated data to create reports and analyses, including:</div> 
<div>(a) summary reports to define geospatial and temporal trends in anti-malarial drug </div> 
<div>resistance and drug quality; and</div> 
<div>(b) specialised analyses of pooled  studies (for example, analyses in  relation  to a</div> 
<div>particular drug, patient group or time span).</div> 
<div>4.</div> 
<div>In the event that WWARN receives a request to contribute data to an external project</div> 
<div>or collaborative analysis, it will not contribute or grant access to your data without</div> 
<div>your express permission.</div> 

 

<div>3</div> 
<div><b>6.</b></div> 
<div><b>PUBLICATION OF DATA</b></div> 
<div>1.</div> 
<div>Your submission of data to WWARN does not affect your right to publish those data,</div> 
<div>which  you  may do  entirely at your own  discretion  and  without consent from or</div> 
<div>reference to WWARN.</div> 
<div>2.</div> 
<div>Data relating to anti-malarial drug resistance is only useful to those involved in the</div> 
<div>treatment of malaria if it is up-to-date and, for that reason, WWARN encourages you</div> 
<div>to  submit your data  before  publication. WWARN will only use  your data  in  an </div> 
<div>aggregated form, except that where you provide your express permission WWARN </div> 
<div>may include a high-level summary of your research on the WWARN Explorer.</div> 
<div>3.</div> 
<div>Reports and  analyses created by WWARN may be  published  or otherwise  made </div> 
<div>publicly accessible, including through the WWARN website.</div> 
<div>4.</div> 
<div>Your contribution to any WWARN publication will be acknowledged in accordance </div> 
<div>with  the  guidelines of the  International Committee  of Medical Journal Editors</div> 
<div><a href="http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html" target="_blank">(</a><a href="http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html" target="_blank">www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html</a><a href="http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html" target="_blank">)</a>.</div> 
<div><b>7.</b></div> 
<div><b>YOUR CONCERNS</b></div> 
<div>If you have any concerns about these terms of submission, please contact <a href="mailto:info@wwarn.org" target="_blank">info@wwarn.org</a>.</div> 


</body>
</html>