<html>
<head>
	<title>Terms</title>
	<style type="text/css">
	body {
		font-family:Arial,Helvetica,Geneva,sans-serif;
	}
	h3 {
		text-align: center;
	}
	li {
		margin-top: 1em;
		margin-bottom: 1em;
	}
	ol {
		margin-left: 1.5em;
		padding-left: 0;
	}
	ol li {
		font-weight: bold;
	}
	ol li ol {
		padding-left: 0; /* FF3 */
		margin-left: 1em; /* IE8 */
	}
	ol li ol li,  ol li p {
		font-weight: normal;
	}
	.style2 {
		list-style-type: lower-alpha;
		margin-left: 1em;
	}
	</style>
</head>
<body>

<h3>Terms of Submission</h3>

<ol>
	<li>
		<span>TERMS</span> 
		<ol>
			<li>
				The  WWARN project is dependent on  the  submission  of data about individual 
				patients' responses to anti-malarial drug treatment. WWARN respects the rights of 
				researchers and institutions who may wish to share their data with WWARN. 
			</li>
			<li>
				These terms of submission (which form part of the WWARN website's terms of use)  
				provide a framework for sharing data with WWARN, explaining the terms on which 
				you may use the site to submit data to WWARN and how WWARN will use that data. 
				Please read these terms carefully before submitting data to WWARN: by submitting  
				data to WWARN, you indicate that you accept these terms and you agree to abide by 
				them.
			</li>
		</ol> 
	</li>
	<li>
		<span>WWARN</span> 
		<ol>
			<li> 
				WWARN is a  project developed  by an international collaboration  of research  
				institutions and  which  is currently hosted  by the  University of Oxford. The  
				collaborative group consists of five WWARN project teams, each of which will have 
				responsibility for the analysis of submitted data in relation to a defined topic (each a 
				WWARN module). 
			</li>
			<li> 
				By submitting data to WWARN you agree that the WWARN project teams will have 
				access to your data on substantially the same terms as granted in these terms of 
				submission. Current details of the  WWARN project teams can  be  viewed  here.
			</li>
		</ol>  
	</li>
	<li>
		<span>DATA</span> 
		<ol>
			<li> 
				In order to ensure compliance with its legal and ethical obligations, WWARN requires 
				that all submitted data: 
				<ol class="style2">
					<li>
					has been obtained in accordance with any laws and ethical approvals applicable 
					in its country of origin;
					</li>
					<li> 
					has been obtained with the knowledge and consent of the individual to which it 
					relates; and
					</li>
					<li> 
					has been  anonymised, so  that any individual to  which  it relates cannot be 
					identified from it.
					</li>
				</ol>
			</li>
			<li>
				You must have the authority to submit the data to be used in accordance with these  
				terms of submission. 
			</li>
			<li> 
				WWARN reserves the discretionary right to delete any submitted data, in whole or in 
				part, if it contains any information that would identify an individual. 
			</li>
			<li> 
				In order to protect your data and safeguard the rights of the individuals to which it 
				relates, WWARN will take appropriate technical and organisational measures against 
				unauthorised or unlawful processing of any submitted data and against the accidental 
				loss or destruction of, or damage to, submitted data.
			</li>
		</ol> 
	</li>
	<li>
		<span>RIGHTS</span> 
		<ol>
			<li> 
				You will continue to own your data. WWARN will not claim any rights of ownership in 
				any data you may submit but, in order to allow WWARN to operate, it requires your 
				permission to use the data for the purposes set out in these terms of submission. 
			</li>
			<li>
				By submitting data, you grant to WWARN a right to use, copy, reformat and to make  
				further analyses of your data in accordance with these terms of submission. 
			</li>
			<li>
				You may, at any time and for any reason, withdraw WWARN's right to use your data, 
				but you accept that your data may have been used to prepare and/or create reports 
				and analyses and that these reports and analyses cannot be withdrawn once they 
				have been made available. 
			</li>
			<li>
				In the event that WWARN transfers from the University of Oxford to another entity, 
				the rights you grant to WWARN will be transferred to that entity.
			</li>
		</ol> 
	</li>
	<li>
		<span>USE OF DATA</span> 
		<ol>
			<li> 
				Your data will be  stored  on  a  secure server and  will be  accessible  only to  you, 
				anyone you may nominate and WWARN. 
			</li>
			<li>  
				Your data may be further processed by WWARN and used in combination with other 
				data to create aggregated data. 
			</li>
			<li>  
				WWARN may use aggregated data to create reports and analyses, including: 
				<ol class="style2">
					<li>
						summary reports to define geospatial and temporal trends in anti-malarial drug  
						resistance and drug quality; and
					</li>
					<li> 
						specialised analyses of pooled  studies (for example, analyses in  relation  to a 
						particular drug, patient group or time span).
					</li>
				</ol> 
			</li>
			<li> 
				In the event that WWARN receives a request to contribute data to an external project 
				or collaborative analysis, it will not contribute or grant access to your data without 
				your express permission. 
			</li>
		</ol> 
	</li>
	<li>
		<span>PUBLICATION OF DATA</span> 
		<ol>
			<li>
				Your submission of data to WWARN does not affect your right to publish those data, 
				which  you  may do  entirely at your own  discretion  and  without consent from or 
				reference to WWARN. 
			</li>
			<li>
				Data relating to anti-malarial drug resistance is only useful to those involved in the 
				treatment of malaria if it is up-to-date and, for that reason, WWARN encourages you 
				to  submit your data  before  publication. WWARN will only use  your data  in  an  
				aggregated form, except that where you provide your express permission WWARN  
				may include a high-level summary of your research on the WWARN Explorer. 
			</li>
			<li>
				Reports and  analyses created by WWARN may be  published  or otherwise  made  
				publicly accessible, including through the WWARN website. 
			</li>
			<li> 
				Your contribution to any WWARN publication will be acknowledged in accordance  
				with  the  guidelines of the  International Committee  of Medical Journal Editors 
				<a href="http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html" target="_blank">(</a><a href="http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html" target="_blank">www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html</a><a href="http://www.icmje.org/ethical_1author.html" target="_blank">)</a>.
			</li>
		</ol>
	</li>
	<li>
		<span>YOUR CONCERNS</span>
		<p>If you have any concerns about these terms of submission, please contact <a href="mailto:info@wwarn.org" target="_blank">info@wwarn.org</a>.
		</p> 
	</li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>