#summary some notes on issues relevant to data protection

= Workflow =

I've assumed that, as a bare minimum, the following will apply.

== Submitter Self-Registration ==

We antipate the following people will be submitting data to WWARN:

  * researchers from scientific and/or academic institutions
  * members of public health organisations such as WHO or national malaria control programs
  * ...?

A potential data submitter will first create a new user account on the wwarn.org web site. This account creation process is also known here as self-registration.

Self-registration will involve filling in a form on a web page, and
providing at least their first and last name, their chosen user name, a valid email
address, and the name of an instution or organisation with which they are affiliated.

Additional information may also be collected via the self-registration form, however,
the nature of this information is yet to be decided by WWARN. Some
information will probably be required by the communications team, for example,
additional contact details.

Once the user has submitted the self-registration form, an email will be
automatically sent to the address they provided. This email address will contain a
URL which they can visit to activate their new user account. When they visit the
activation URL in their web browser, the new user will be asked to provide a
password, which they can subsequently use to authenticate themselves (i.e., log in)
to secure areas of the wwarn.org site.