#summary about the xquestion module of chassis

= Introduction =

XQuestion is a chassis module for the Google Web Toolkit (GWT). It is a declarative XML forms engine, a bit like XForms but simpler and easy to integrate into a GWT app.

See also the [http://dsn-chassis.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/generic/lib/gwt/static/demo/xqs/example.html XQuestion demo].

= XQuestion and XML =

XQuestion uses XML in two ways.

Firstly, the declarative form definition is given in XML. For example, the snippet below defines a simple form asking for your name and title.

{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<questionnaire 
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
  xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="http://dsn-chassis.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/generic/lib/gwt/src/main/resources/xquestion/xquestion.xsd"
  defaultPrefix="foo"
  defaultNamespaceUri="http://example.org/foo">

  <model>
    <element name="person"/>
  </model>

  <view>

    <html><h2>Personal Information Questionnaire</h2></html>
    
    <question id="name">
      <model>
        <element name="name"/>
      </model>
      <view>
        <input>
          <label>What is your name?</label>
        </input>
      </view>
    </question>   
    
    <question id="title">
      <model>
        <element name="title"/>
      </model>
      <view>
        <select1 appearance="minimal">
          <label>What is your title?</label>
          <item>
            <label>Mr</label>
            <value>mr</value>
          </item>
          <item>
            <label>Mrs</label>
            <value>mrs</value>
          </item>
          <item>
            <label>Miss</label>
            <value>miss</value>
          </item>
          <item>
            <label>Ms</label>
            <value>ms</value>
          </item>
        </select1>
      </view>
    </question>
    
</questionnaire>
}}}

XQuestion then uses this definition to render the form, and to marshall XML data to and from the form. I.e., once the user has entered some data into the form, you can then obtain an XML representation of those data. You can also prepopulate a form with existing XML data that fits the form's model.

E.g., you could obtain the following XML data from a form generated from the above XQuestion definition...

{{{
<foo:person xmlns:foo="http://example.org/foo">
  <foo:name>Alice Foo</foo:givenName>
  <foo:title>ms</foo:title>
</foo:person>
}}}

= XQuestion and XForms =

XQuestion is heavily inspired by XForms. If there was cross-browser support for XForms, we probably would have used it. But, afaik, there isn't (without a plugin), so we baked XQuestion ourselves, as a simple way to move forwards with integrating data entry forms with an XML-based data persistence architecture.

= Status =

XQuestion is pre-alpha so caveat emptor.
