<wiki:toc/>

= Introduction =

This page contains notes on using the Google Web Toolkit (GWT) with Eclipse.

= Inheriting Modules From Another Eclipse Project =

Say you have one Google Web Application project in your workspace, named my-gwt-utils, in which you define a module with root packace `foo.utils` and logical module name `foo.utils.Utils`. The purpose of this module is to provide some utility methods, which you want to re-use across several GWT projects. This module has no entry point classes. There are no HTML pages in this project.

Say you have another Google Web Application project in your workspace, named my-gwt-app, in which you define a module with root package `foo.myapp` and logical module name `foo.myapp.MyGWTApplication`. This module has an entry point class and an HTML page. You want to re-use the `foo.utils.Utils` module within this project. What do you need to do?

There are two things you need to do:

   * *configure the build path for the my-gwt-app project to include the my-gwt-utils project*
   * *add an `inherits` directive in the module definition for the `foo.myapp.MyGWTApplication` module*, e.g.:
   
{{{
<inherits name="foo.utils.Utils" />
}}}

Note that *you will also have to restart any hosted-mode servers and browsers* you have running.

Rather than configure the build path to include the my-gwt-utils project, you could export a jar from my-gwt-utils and copy it to the war/WEB-INF/lib folder in the my-gwt-app project. *Note that the exported jar will need to include the source files as well as the compiled class files - the GWT compiler needs the Java source.* Of course, you have to repeat this process any time you make any changes to my-gwt-utils.
   
= GWT Compiler Crashes in Native Code =

With Eclipse 3.4 and Java 6 as the only installed JRE, the GWT compiler crashes in native code. The hosted mode server and browsers also crash without explanation.

This can be fixed by installing a Java 5 JRE and setting as the Eclipse default JRE.

= Setting Up and Running GWT Unit Tests =

Reading the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/tutorials/1.6/JUnit.html GWT JUnit Tutorial] and the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/1.6/DevGuideTesting.html Testing section of the GWT Developer's Guide], it sounds like hard work to get GWT JUnit tests running.

Using the Eclipse GWT Plugin for Ganymede, it was easier than the docs suggest. I did:

   * assume module under test is `foo.bar.MyModule`
   * assume class under test is `foo.bar.client.MyClass`
   * create new source folder named `test` under project root folder
   * create a new package `foo.bar.client` in `test` source folder
   * create a new test class `foo.bar.client.TestMyClass` extends `com.google.gwt.junit.client.GWTTestCase`
   * configure project build path, add junit 3 library 
   * create a test method, e.g., `public void testSomething() { assertTrue(true); }` in new test class 
   * right click the new test class, do `run as`, either `GWT Unit Test` or `GWT Unit Test (web mode)`
   * if project is not built automatically, build project (plain Java build, not GWT compile)
   
That should be all you need. I had Java version compatibility problem when I first ran it, which went away when I chose Java 1.5 both as default JRE and as compile level.
