#summary A description of how to make changes to the Chassis data model


= Details =

== Define the XML change you want to make ==

It's a good idea (although not strictly necessary) to start by changing the XML schema held in the chassis-model project. The advantage of starting here is that it will help ensure that your change fits nicely within the schema e.g. not reusing a previously used element name. You'll need to do this later anyway.

This means: resources/chassis.xsd and making the same modifications to schema/chassis-pruned.xsd (with the addition of minOccurs=0)

Don't forget to change the version number in the profile attribute.

== Start with an empty database ==

Delete the contents of your exist data directory - the files will be recreated when you restart the application.

Don't forget to recreate the collections via the developer home page and repopulate the config collection from the admin page.

== Change the new study template ==

In src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/resources/apps/common/templates/study add your new element(s)

== Change the input form ==

This will probably be in src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/resources/apps/common/includes/study

Copy an example of a similar field

If you need validation e.g. number only field then you'll need to change the schema in src/main/webapp/insecure/schema

For a drop down the values are held as enumerations in the schema - the labels are in src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/resources/apps/common/resources.xml - you can read the wiki page on how this works or just copy an example.

Field labels are sometimes text strings, sometimes in resources.xml - they should be in resources.xml but haven't yet all been moved.

More complex things such as displaying the other text input field when the other drop option is selected are controlled via the bindings in src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/resources/apps/common/templates/includes/study/study-info-bindings.xml

== Test the change ==

Fire it up, create a new study and test that it works as expected.

Now is a good time to change the selenium test script - load up the Selenium IDE in firefox and choose either create-study-suite or ssq-suite from the selenium-ide directory (you'll need to run these as slow as possible)

You can, of course, create your new test study using the first suite and then test the ssq with the second.

== Migration ==

Once you know that the change works for new studies then you can look at migration of the existing data.

First load up a copy of the current db - this can be done using scripts/restore-chassis-exist.sh (set up for cygwin under Windows) - note that this has to be done with Spring authentication not CAS authentication enabled and you will need to set passwords etc in the script.

Once this has been done you will need to reindex the database by calling service/admin/reindex.xql in the browser.

When you've done this it's quite a good idea to stop the server and take a copy of the exist directory - it's easier to restore by copying this back instead of rerunning the restore script.

Now create a new directory under webapp/service/admin with an index.xhtml file and link to it from WEB-INF/resources/app/administration/home.xhtml

Take a copy of an earlier migration script (be careful with SVN here - in particular don't just copy an earlier directory) you will probably need update-study-info.xql.

You need to change the old and new version numbers.
The work is done in modify-nodes

Testing is done in check-changes - you will first need to update the test study at the top of the script to ensure that it matches a current study
(Testing is done by inserting the test study into a test collection and then running the changes on that collection)

Once you have completed this then you can run the script via the Administration page off developers home (logged in as an admin)

== Test again ==
Use the selenium scripts on the migrated data

== Flattener == 

At the moment it is necessary to map the XPath for elements to short names for the flattener.
The mappings are held in the config collection and need to be updated in two places service/admin/init-config.xql and with an update script in your migration directory update-field-mappings.xql

== Changing the database ==

Make your changes to the XML Schema in chassis-model, if you haven't already done so. (You need to change the main schema and the pruned schema but the chassis-model-pruned project is obsolete)

It's a good idea to download the studies feed of your database and validate it with the revised schema - download via repository/service/content/studies

Once you are happy with this then release a new version of the jar.

Change the version of the jar in chassis-rest and release a new version.

Change the versions in importChassisMetadata and test that.

You may then need to update, and release, the database views held in chassisViewsCore

== One more thing ==
You also need to update the chassis-isomorphic project which is used to validate the integrity of the database using Jenkins - (this could almost certainly be done with the importChassisMetadata app instead)