#summary At the end of each sprint the version of the deliverables should be incremented.
#labels Deprecated

= Introduction =

During the PreSprintPlanningMeeting the version that is being sprinted towards is defined.
At the end of the sprint, prior to the SprintDemo the versions of deliverables are 
changed to the defined version number.

= Version Examples =

An example release version number sequence

  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-alpha-1.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-alpha-2.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-alpha-3.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-beta-1.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-beta-2.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-beta-3.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-rc-1.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-rc-2.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1-rc-3.war 
  * chassis-generic-client-gwt-0.1.war 

The artifact id is made up of the following elements
  * Module name (_chassis-generic-client-gwt_)
  * Major version number (_0_)
  * Minor version number (_1_)
  * Optional status (_alpha/beta/rc_)
  * Sprint attempt (*should be*  _1_)
  * File type 

= Release Procedure = 
This is delegated to Maven.
Ensure you have Tomcat running on 8080 before starting.
Accept the Maven generated defaults: 
<pre>
mvn release:prepare
</pre>
This will create one artefact per project. Upload to 
[http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/downloads/list] and tag as featured.
Tag previous featured dowbnloads as deprecated. 
<pre>
mvn release:perform
</pre>
This will set the version to the SNAPSHOT being aimed for in the next sprint.


<br />
= Notes = 

The maven plugin ensures that there are no uncommitted changes.

A non-SNAPSHOT build should not depend upon any SNAPSHOT artifacts.

Beta versions imply no guarantee that the API will not change. 

All the artifacts inherit their version from a single parent pom to enable easy maintenance of the above mechanism. 