#summary design notes on curation and standardisation processes

----
= Use Cases =

== Preamble ==

=== Roles ===

  * *submitter* - creates the data
  * *curator* - works on the data to meet quality control criteria
  * *standardiser* - transforms data into a standard form
  
N.B. the same person might be both curator and standardiser.

=== Notational Conventions ===

  * letters _A_, _B_, _C_, etc., denote some data, not in a standard form
  * letters _A'_, _B'_, _C'_, etc., denote some data in a standard form
  * _A_ -> _B_ denotes that _B_ was derived from _A_
  * ignore any colouring in the derivation graph ascii art, it's accidental

== Use Case 1 (Regular, Linear) ==

A submitter submits _A_. A curator works on _A_ (e.g., removes some rows, or changes some columns) and derives _B_. A standardiser transforms _B_ into _C'_.

This is a *regular*, *linear* case, where submission leads to curation, which leads to standardisation.

=== Sequence of Events ===

  # -> _A_ (submission)
  # _A_ -> _B_ (curation)
  # _B_ -> _C'_ (standardisation)
  
=== Derivation Graph ===

{{{
_A_ -> _B_ -> _C'_
}}}

== Use Case 2 (Goofy, Linear) ==

A submitter submits _A_. A standardiser transforms _A_ into _B'_. A curator then works on _B'_ (e.g., removes some rows, but does not change the structure of the data) and derives _C'_.

This is a "*goofy*", *linear* case, where some curation occurs after standardisation.

=== Sequence of Events ===

  # -> _A_ (submission)
  # _A_ -> _B'_ (standardisation)
  # _B'_-> _C'_ (curation)
  
=== Derivation Graph ===

{{{
_A_ -> _B'_-> _C'_
}}}

== Use Case 3 (Goofy, Linear, Pre-Standardised) ==

A submitter submits _A'_ which is already in a standard form (e.g., the WHO spreadsheet format). A curator works on _A'_ and derives _B'_.

This is a "*goofy*", *linear* case, where some curation occurs after standardisation, and where the data comes "pre-standardised".

=== Sequence of Events ===

  # _A'_-> _B'_ (curation)
  
=== Derivation Graph ===

_A'_-> _B'_

== Use Case 4 (Regular, Branched) ==

A submitter submits _A_. A curator works on _A_ and derives _B_. A standardiser transforms _B_ into _C'_. A curator then does further work on _B_ and derives _D_. A standardiser transforms _D_ into _E'_.

This is a *regular* case, where curation always precedes standardisation, with a *branch* in the derivation graph caused by two standardisation events.

=== Sequence of Events ===

  # -> _A_ (submission)
  # _A_ -> _B_ (curation)
  # _B_ -> _C'_ (standardisation)
  # _B_ -> _D_ (curation)
  # _D_ -> _E'_ (standardisation)
  
=== Derivation Graph ===

{{{
A -> B -> C'
     |
     v
     D -> E'
}}}

== Use Case 5 (Regular, Submitter Revision) ==

A submitter submits _A_. A curator works on _A_ and derives _B_. A standardiser transforms _B_ into _C'_. The submitter submits a revision of _A_, _D_ (e.g., with some new rows included). A curator works on _D_ and derives _E_. A standardiser transforms _E_ into _F'_.

This is a *regular* case, where curation always precedes standardisation, with a *branch* in the derivation graph caused by the submitter's revised submission.

=== Sequence of Events ===

  # -> _A_ (submission)
  # _A_ -> _B_ (curation)
  # _B_ -> _C'_ (standardisation)
  # _A_ -> _D_ (revised submission)
  # _D_ -> _E_ (curation)
  # _E_ -> _F'_ (standardisation)
  
=== Derivation Graph ===

{{{
A -> B -> C'
|
v
D -> E -> F'
}}}

