#summary how code projects are organised

<wiki:toc/>

#
#
#
----
= Service Projects =

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` Atom Service (generic/service/atom) ==

This project manages an implementation of the Atom Publishing Protocol, initially based on eXist, with extensions for querying data within and across collections.

|| Project Type || Eclipse Dynamic Web Project ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| Target Runtimes || Apache Tomcat v6.0 ||
|| Dynamic Web Module Version || 2.5 ||
|| Default Context Root || `chassis-generic-service-atom` ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/service/atom/ /trunk/generic/service/atom/] ||

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` User Service (generic/service/user) ==

This project manages default implementations of the user service, providing remote access to an authenticated user's details and roles.

|| Project Type || Eclipse Dynamic Web Project ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| Target Runtimes || Apache Tomcat v6.0 ||
|| Dynamic Web Module Version || 2.5 ||
|| Default Context Root || `chassis-generic-service-user` ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/service/user/ /trunk/generic/service/user/] ||

=== Dependencies ===

Other projects on build path:

  * Chassis/`*` Java Library (generic/lib/java)
  
Other projects as Java EE module dependencies:

  * Chassis/`*` Java Library (generic/lib/java)

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` File Upload Service (generic/service/upload) ==

This project manages an implementation of a service handling file upload posts from HTML forms.

|| Project Type || Eclipse Dynamic Web Project ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| Target Runtimes || Apache Tomcat v6.0 ||
|| Dynamic Web Module Version || 2.5 ||
|| Default Context Root || `chassis-generic-service-upload` ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/service/upload/ /trunk/generic/service/upload/] ||

#
#
#
----
= GWT Client Projects =

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` GWT Client (generic/client/gwt) ==

A generic Chassis client implemented in GWT.

|| Project Type || Eclipse Dynamic Web Project + Google Web Toolkit ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| Target Runtimes || Apache Tomcat v6.0 ||
|| Dynamic Web Module Version || 2.5 ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/client/gwt/ /trunk/generic/client/gwt/] ||

=== Dependencies ===

Other projects on build path:

  * Chassis/`*` GWT Library (generic/lib/gwt)
  
Other projects as Java EE module dependencies:

  * Chassis/`*` Java Library (generic/lib/java) (needed for shared spring security config for dev environment)

#
#
#
== Chassis/WWARN GWT Libraries ==

This project manages WWARN-specific extensions to the supporting libraries for a GWT Chassis client.

|| Project Type || Google Web Application Project ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/wwarn/lib/gwt/ /trunk/wwarn/lib/gwt/] ||

Project dependencies:

  * Chassis/`*` GWT Libraries

== Chassis/WWARN GWT Client ==

A WWARN-specific Chassis client implemented in GWT.

|| Project Type || Google Web Application Project ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/wwarn/client/gwt/ /trunk/wwarn/client/gwt/] ||

Project dependencies:

  * Chassis/`*` GWT Libraries
  * Chassis/`*` GWT Client
  * Chassis/WWARN GWT Libraries

----
#
#
#
= Supporting Library Projects =

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` GWT Library (generic/lib/gwt) ==

This project manages a supporting library for a generic GWT Chassis client.

|| Project Type || Eclipse Dynamic Web Project + Google Web Toolkit ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| Target Runtimes || Apache Tomcat v6.0 ||
|| Dynamic Web Module Version || 2.5 ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/lib/gwt/ /trunk/generic/lib/gwt/] ||

=== Dependencies ===

Other projects on build path:

  * Chassis/`*` Java Library (generic/lib/java) (exported)

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` Java Library (generic/lib/java) ==

This project manages a supporting Java library for client and service projects.

|| Project Type || Eclipse Java Project ||
|| JDK Compliance Level || 1.5 ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/lib/java/ /trunk/generic/lib/java/] ||

----
#
#
#
= Documentation Projects =

#
#
#
== Chassis/`*` Documentation ==

Documentation of service APIs, etc., for the generic Chassis/`*` platform.

|| Project Type || Static Web Project ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/generic/docs/ /trunk/generic/docs/] ||

#
#
#
== Chassis/WWARN Documentation ==

Documentation of extensions to generic Chassis/`*` service APIs, etc., for the Chassis/WWARN platform.

|| Project Type || Static Web Project ||
|| SVN Location || [http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/browse/trunk/wwarn/docs/ /trunk/wwarn/docs/] ||


