#summary This document is a specification of user requirements for a first milestone release (M1) of the Chassis/WWARN system for managing the submission, curation and standardisation of data for the World Wide Anti-malarial Resistance Network (WWARN).

= Chassis/WWARN (M1) Data Management Platform - User Requirements Specification =

This Document: *Second Draft* (2009-08-10)

*Changes Since First Draft* (2009-07-22):

  * No substantive change to document content.
  * Added Candidate Requirements & Open Issues section with requirements, issues & questions raised during initial conversation with Dominic, and during initial design meeting the Oxford IT team.
  * Moved all @@TODO items from main sections to Candidate Requirements and Open Issues section.

([http://code.google.com/p/dsn-chassis/source/diff?spec=svn190&r=190&format=side&path=/wiki/WwarnMilestoneOneRequirementsSpec.wiki&old_path=/wiki/WwarnMilestoneOneRequirementsSpec.wiki&old=104 view diff])
  
----
*Table of Contents*

<wiki:toc/>
----

== Introduction ==

This document is a specification of user requirements for the _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system for managing the submission, curation and standardisation of data for the World Wide Anti-malarial Resistance Network (WWARN).

=== WWARN Data Management ===

The _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system is intended to support the data management activities of the WWARN data-sharing network. These data management activities include the submission of data, curation of submitted data to meet defined quality control and other (e.g., ethical) criteria, and mapping of data onto WWARN standards for data structure and semantics. The end goal of these activities is to produce data that is suitable for ingest into the WWARN database.

=== Chassis/WWARN and the WWARN Database ===

Note that the _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system is distinct from the _WWARN database_. The _WWARN database_ is a repository of standardised, quality controlled data, with tools for the analysis and visualisation of those data. Data will be periodically exported from the _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system and ingested into the _WWARN database_. Management of this export and ingest process, and any support for data visualisation or analysis tools, is out of scope for the _Chassis/WWARN_ system.

=== First Milestone Release (M1) ===

The _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system is intended to be a first milestone release of the _Chassis/WWARN_ system for production use by WWARN. This document specifies the functionality that must be included in the first milestone release. Some other functionality that might be developed for future releases of _Chassis/WWARN_ is also discussed.

=== Chassis/`*` ===

This user requirements specification is tailored towards the requirements of the WWARN data-sharing network. However, the _Chassis/WWARN_ system is intended to be the first instance of a generic platform (_Chassis/`*`_) to support the data management activities of similar data-sharing networks.

=== Structure of this Document ===

This document is divided into two main parts. The first part describes use cases and functional requirements relating to the submission of new data to WWARN, and the initial review of those submissions by a gatekeeper. The second part describes use cases and functional requirements for the curation and standardisation of submitted data, i.e., all activities necessary to make submitted data suitable for release to the WWARN database. 

----
==Roles==

The following roles are defined here for users of the _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system.

  * A *submitter* is someone who can create a data submission. A submitter represents and is assumed to act for the people and/or organisations who have intellectual property rights and copyright over any data they submit. 

  * A *gatekeeper* is someone with the authority to approve a data submission. By approving a submission, the gatekeeper is asserting that the submission is relevant to WWARN, and authorising the expenditure of resources (i.e., time and effort) on curating and standardising the submission. 

  * A *curator* is someone who will perform curation activities, which might include (but is not limited to) reviewing submitted data, revising submitted data, ensure data meet quality control criteria and community standards.

  * A *coordinator* is someone who has overall responsibility for the operations of a data-sharing network.

----
==Part 1 - Data Submission==
----
=== Data Submission Workflow - Key Points ===

The _Chassis/WWARN_ (M1) system is designed to support a data submission workflow with the following key characteristics.

==== General Points ====

  * Data submission is the process whereby new data enters the Chassis/WWARN system.

  * A submitter initiates the process by creating a new submission. The submitter then provides some information about the submission, and uploads a data file containing the initial version of the submitted data.

==== Data Dictionaries ====

  * Submitted data must be linked to a data dictionary, before a request can be made for gatekeeper approval of a new submission. A data dictionary defines expectations for the structure and semantics of submitted data. In the simplest case, a data dictionary is a human-readable document, stating that the submitted data are structured as a single table, listing the field (i.e., column) names used in the table, and providing a textual definition for each field name. However, the Chassis/WWARN (M1) system does not place any constraints on the structure or content of data dictionaries (see also below). 
  
  * A submitter can create a new data dictionary for each new submission, or re-use an existing data dictionary.

==== Gatekeeper Review ====

  * The submitter can then request gatekeeper approval of their new submission. The gatekeeper is responsible for performing an initial evaluation of the submitted data and accompanying data dictionary, to determine whether or not resources (i.e., time and effort) should be spent curating the data and mapping it onto a WWARN standard data dictionary. The gatekeeper *is not* responsible for making any modifications to the data or approving the data for ingest into the WWARN database.

  * If the gatekeeper approves the request, then the submission proceeds to curation. If the gatekeeper denies the request, the submission does not proceed to curation. Once a gatekeeper has approved a submission request, they can assign a curator to the submission. Responsibility for the submission then passes from the gatekeeper to the assigned curator.

  * Before a submitter has requested gatekeeper approval for a submission, they can make revisions to the submitted data. A submitter can also revise a submission after gatekeeper approval has been denied, and make a new request for gatekeeper approval of the revised submission. 

  * There may be more than one gatekeeper. For Chassis/WWARN (M1), it is anticipated that the gatekeepers will be the module heads. If this is the case, then the Chassis/WWARN system will assign a gatekeeper to each new submission based on the module to which the submission is linked by its submitter.

==== Constraints on Submitted Data & Data Dictionaries ====

  * Chassis/WWARN (M1) does not place any constraints on the nature or format of the data file uploaded as submitted data. The Chassis/WWARN (M1) system *will not* attempt to parse the submitted data file, and *will not* provide any previews of the submitted data. Later versions of Chassis/WWARN may provide support for parsing and previewing of data files containing a single table of data.

  * Chassis/WWARN (M1) does not place any restrictions on the nature or format of the data dictionary file uploaded when a new data dictionary is created or revised. The system *will not* attempt to parse the data dictionary file, nor provide any preview of its contents. Later versions of Chassis/WWARN may constrain data dictionary files to a single format, and parse files to store and provide views of data dictionaries. Later versions of the system may also provide online support for creating and editing the contents of data dictionaries, without needing to upload files.

----
=== Data Submission Use Cases ===

The use cases below provide a more detailed illustration of how a user will interact with the Chassis/WWARN system in the most commonly anticipated scenarios. The use cases *are not* intended to cover every possible scenario.

==== Use Case: Submitter Creates a New Study ====

Every submission must be linked to at least one study. Before creating the first submission for a study, a submitter creates a new study, providing at a title and textual summary for the study, and linking the new study to at least one module.

N.B. a submitter can then proceed to enter all required metadata for the new study (i.e., fill out the study site questionnaire). However, it is not necessary that any further metadata be entered before a submitter can create new submissions or request gatekeeper approval for a submission.

==== Use Case: Submitter Creates a New Submission With a New Data Dictionary ====

A submitter creates a new submission, provides a title for the submission, links the submission to at least one study and at least one module, and uploads a file containing the initial version of the submitted data.

In this case, no data dictionary is already present in the system that corresponds to the submitted data. The submitter creates a new data dictionary, provides a title for the dictionary, and uploads a file containing the initial version of the data dictionary. The submitter then links the initial version of the submitted data to the initial version of the new data dictionary. 

The submitter then sends a request for gatekeeper approval of the submission.

==== Use Case: Submitter Creates a New Submission With an Existing Data Dictionary ====

A submitter creates a new submission, provides a title for the submission, links the submission to at least one study and at least one module, and uploads a data file containing the initial version of the submitted data.

In this case, a data dictionary was previously created for a different submission that also applies to the new submission. The submitter links the initial version of the submitted data to the appropriate version of the existing data dictionary.

The submitter then sends a request for gatekeeper approval of the submission.

==== Use Case: Submitter Revises a Submission Before Requesting Approval ====

A submitter creates a new submission, with a new data dictionary.

Before the submitter sends a request for gatekeeper approval, she realises that some data are missing in the initial version of the submitted data. She downloads the initial version of the submitted data, adds the missing data, and uploads a revised version of the submitted data. She then links the revised version of the submitted data to the initial version of the data dictionary, because neither the structure nor the semantics of the data have changed.

The submitter then sends a request for gatekeeper approval of the submission.

==== Use Case: Submitter Revises a Submission and Dictionary Before Requesting Approval ====

A submitter creates a new submission, with a new data dictionary.

Before the submitter sends a request for gatekeeper approval, she realises that some fields are missing in the initial version of the submitted data. She downloads the initial version of the submitted data, adds the missing fields, and uploads a new version of the submitted data.

Because the structure of the data has changed, the submitter also uploads a new version of the data dictionary she previously created. The new version includes a definition of each of the new fields. She then links the revised version of the submitted data with the revised version of the data dictionary.

The submitter then sends a request for gatekeeper approval of the submission. 

==== Use Case: Gatekeeper Reviews and Approves Submission Request ====

A submitter sends a request for gatekeeper approval of their new submission. The request contains a link to a specific version of the submitted data, and a specific version of the associated data dictionary, as specified in the request by the submitter.

A gatekeeper is allocated to review the request. She downloads the specified version of the submitted data and the specified version of the data dictionary, reviews them, and decides to approve the request. The gatekeeper approves the request. The gatekeeper then assigns a curator to the submission, and curation begins.

==== Use Case: Gatekeeper Approves Submission Request After Revision ====

A submitter sends a request for gatekeeper approval of their new submission. 

A gatekeeper is allocated to review the request. She downloads the specified version of the submitted data and the specified version of the data dictionary, and reviews them. 

In this case, the data dictionary is not complete, and the gatekeeper cannot understand the data. The gatekeeper denies the request, explaining that the data dictionary is incomplete, and encouraging the submitter to revise the data dictionary and make a new request for approval.

The submitter is notified of the gatekeeper's decision. She then uploads a new version of the data dictionary containing the missing information, removes the link from the initial version of the submitted data to the initial, incomplete, version of the data dictionary, and links the initial version of the submitted data to the revised version of the data dictionary.

The submitter then sends a new request for gatekeeper approval of the revised submission.

A gatekeeper is notified of the request for approval, downloads the initial version of the submitted data and the revised version of the data dictionary, reviews them, and decides to approve the submission. The gatekeeper assigns a curator, and curation begins.

==== Use Case: Submitted Data is Not Relevant to WWARN ====

A submitter sends a request for gatekeeper approval of their new submission. 

A gatekeeper is allocated to review the request. She downloads the specified version of the submitted data and the specified version of the data dictionary, and reviews them. 

In this case, it is clear that none of the data are relevant to any of WWARN's scientific modules. The gatekeeper denies the request for approval, providing an explanation of the reasons why the request was denied. The submitter is notified of the gatekeeper's decision and explanation. The submitter deletes her submission.

==== Use Case: Coordinator Reviews Submission Activity ====

A coordinator reviews a list of all submissions that are pending gatekeeper approval. She notices that one submission has been pending gatekeeper approval for more than 2 weeks. She contacts the gatekeeper assigned to the submission and asks that the submission be reviewed with high priority.

==== Use Case: Gatekeeper Reviews Submission Activity ====

A gatekeeper reviews a list of all submission requests that have been allocated to her and that have not yet been reviewed. She selects a request from the list and reviews it.

==== Use Case: Submitter Reviews Their Submission Activity ====

A submitter reviews a list of all her submissions that have received gatekeeper approval, a list of all her submissions that are pending gatekeeper approval, and all her "draft" submissions for which she has not yet requested gatekeeper approval.

From the list of her draft submissions, she selects those that are ready for gatekeeper review, and requests gatekeeper approval for them.

----
=== Data Submission Functional Requirements ===

==== (Submitter) Managing Studies ====

  * A submitter will be able to create a new study. This involves providing a title and textual summary for the study, and linking the study to at least one module.

  * A submitter will be able to view a list of all studies they have previously created.

  * A submitter will be able to view a list of all studies created by anyone.

  * Lists of studies can be filtered by module.

==== (Submitter) Entering and Revising Study Metadata ====

  * A submitter will be able to enter metadata about any study they have previously created.

  * A submitter will be able to revise (i.e., update, modify) metadata about any study they have previously created.

N.B. study metadata includes the study site questionnaire (SSQ).

==== (Submitter) Creating a New Submission & Uploading Data ====

  * A submitter will be able to create a new submission. This involves providing a title and textual summary for the submission, associating the submission with at least one previously created study, associating the submission with at least one WWARN module, and uploading a single file containing the initial version of the submitted data.

By default, the submitter becomes the owner of any submission they create.

Note that a new submission will be created in a "draft" state, i.e., will not automatically be forwarded to a gatekeeper for review. The submitter must explicitly request gatekeeper approval for a new submission, see below.

==== (Submitter) Revising Submitted Data ====

  * A submitter will be able to upload a data file containing a new version of the submitted data, for any submission they own.

  * A submitter will be able to view a version history of the submitted data for any submission they own.

==== (Submitter) Downloading Submitted Data ====

  * A submitter will be able to download the latest version of the submitted data, for any submission they own.

  * A submitter will also be able to download any previous version of the submitted data, for any submission they own.

==== (Submitter) Creating a Data Dictionary ====

  * A submitter will be able to create a new data dictionary. This involves providing a title and textual summary for the new data dictionary, and uploading a file containing the initial version of the data dictionary.

By default, a submitter is the owner of any data dictionary they create.

==== (Submitter) Revising a Data Dictionary ====

  * A submitter will be able to upload a file containing a new version of a previously created data dictionary they own.

  * A submitter will be able to view a version history for any data dictionary they own.

==== (Submitter) Downloading a Data Dictionary ====

  * A submitter will be able to download any version of any data dictionary.

==== (Submitter) Linking Submitted Data With a Data Dictionary ====

  * For any submission they own, a submitter will be able to link a specific version of the submitted data with a specific version of a data dictionary. They do not have to also own the data dictionary to which the link is made.

  * For any submission they own, a submitter will be able to remove the current link between the latest version of the submitted data and the version of the data dictionary to which it is linked, and replace it with a new link to a different version of the same data dictionary, or some version of a different data dictionary.

  * For any submission they own, a submitter will be able to view a history of any changes that have been made to links between the submitted data and data dictionaries. 

==== (Submitter) Requesting Gatekeeper Submission Approval ====

  * A submitter will be able to request gatekeeper approval for any submission they own.

==== (Submitter) Overview of Submission Activity ====

  * A submitter will be able to view a list of all submissions they own. The status of each submission, i.e., either draft (not yet submitted to gatekeeper), pending gatekeeper review, gatekeeper approved, or gatekeeper denied, will be clearly shown.

  * A submitter will also be able to view a list of only draft submissions, a list of submissions that are pending gatekeeper review, and a list of submissions that have been approved by a gatekeeper.

  * Any of these submission lists can be grouped by study or module.

==== (Gatekeeper) Overview of Submission Activity ====

  * A gatekeeper will be able to view a list of all submissions from any submitter, not including draft submissions. The status of each submission (i.e., either pending gatekeeper approval, gatekeeper approved or gatekeeper denied) will be clearly shown.

  * A gatekeeper will also be able to view a list of only those submissions that have been approved by a gatekeeper (not necessarily themselves), a list of submissions that have been denied, and a list of submissions that are pending gatekeeper approval.

  * Any of these submissions lists can be grouped by submitter, study or module.

==== (Gatekeeper) Downloading Submitted Data and Data Dictionaries ====

  * A gatekeeper will be able to download any version of submitted data for which a request for gatekeeper approval has been made. A gatekeeper will also be able to download any version of a data dictionary to which the submitted data is linked.

==== (Gatekeeper) Approving Requests and Assigning a Curator ====

  * A gatekeeper will be able to approve any submission for which a request for gatekeeper approval has been made. 

  * A gatekeeper will be able to assign a curator to an approved submission.

Note that, once a gatekeeper has approved a submission, that approval is assumed to apply, even if the submitter uploads a new revision of the submitted data.

==== (Gatekeeper) Denying Requests ====

  * A gatekeeper will be able to deny any submission for which a request for gatekeeper approval has been made. This involves providing an explanation of the reasons why the request has been denied, and any further information for the submitter.

==== (Coordinator) Overview of Submission Activity ====

  * A coordinator will be able to view a list of all submissions from any submitter, not including draft submissions. The status of each submission (i.e., either pending gatekeeper approval, gatekeeper approved or gatekeeper denied) will be clearly shown.

  * A coordinator will also be able to view a list of only those submissions that have been approved by a gatekeeper, a list of submissions denied by a gatekeeper, and a list of submissions that are pending gatekeeper approval.

  * Any of these submissions lists can be grouped by submitter, study or module.

----
==Part 2 - Data Curation & Standardisation==
----
=== Data Curation & Standardisation Workflow - Key Points ===

==== General Points ====

  * The curation process takes submitted data as input and produces data that is suitable for release to the WWARN database. 

  * Data that is suitable for release to the WWARN database must conform to one of the standard data dictionaries defined by the curators, and must meet all other release criteria defined by the curators, e.g., ethical or quality control criteria. Therefore, the curation process involves doing whatever is necessary to get the data to the point where it meets all release criteria. 

  * The curation process comprises a wide and open-ended range of possible activities. In general, curation activities either make some revision to the submitted data (e.g., adding, removing, or restructuring data), or review the submitted data with respect to some criteria (e.g., ethical criteria, quality control criteria) and assert that the data either do or do not meet those criteria. 

==== Transformation and Mapping to Standard Data Dictionaries ====

  * In addition to the non-standard data dictionaries that submitters can create, the Chassis/WWARN system has one or more data dictionaries managed by the curators that are agreed WWARN standard data dictionaries. Submitted data must be transformed into data that conforms with one of these standard data dictionaries before it can be made available for ingest to the WWARN database.

 * A special type of revision activity involves transforming data that is submitted in a non-standard form into something that conforms with one of the standard data dictionaries. Defining such a transformation is referred to here as "mapping". However, note that just because data conforms to the structural and semantic conditions of a standard data dictionary, does not necessarily mean that the data are reliable or make any sense. I.e., quality control is a separate concern from mapping submitted data to standard data dictionaries. 

  * The Chassis/WWARN (beta) system does not prescribe the order in which data are mapped to a standard data dictionary, and revised to meet quality control standards and other release criteria. I.e., data may be submitted in a non-standard form, revised to meet quality control standards, and then mapped to a standard data dictionary; or data may be first mapped to a standard data dictionary, and then revised to meet quality control criteria; or revisions may be applied both before and after mapping to a standard data dictionary.

  * In the Chassis/WWARN (beta) system, no support will be provided for transforming data. I.e., it is assumed that all data will be transformed using other systems, e.g., off-line desktop tools. Later versions of Chassis/WWARN may provide online support for defining and executing mappings between data conforming to different data dictionaries. 

  * Standard data dictionaries are like any other data dictionaries, in that they define expectations for the structure and semantics of submitted data, except that they are maintained by the curators. In the simplest case, a standard data dictionary is a human readable document, stating that the data should be structured as a single table, and providing a list of field names with a textual definition for each field. However, it is expected that a standard data dictionary will also provide details of the expected datatype for each field (e.g., string, integer, decimal, datetime, etc.), the expected units for each field (e.g., g/dl), and any constraints on the expected value (e.g., numerical range constraints).

  * A special type of review activity involves checking that submitted data conform with respect to a data dictionary, also referred to as validation. The Chassis/WWARN (beta) system will not provide any support for validation. I.e., it is assumed that validation will be performed using other systems, e.g., by manual review, or using off-line desktop tools. Later versions of Chassis/WWARN may provide some online support for validation, where possible.

==== Specification of Release Criteria ====

  * A second special type of review activity involves reviewing submitted data with respect to a specification of *release criteria*. Such a specification states *all* of the criteria that must be met before data may be released to the WWARN database. These criteria might include, but are not limited to, ethical criteria (e.g., data must be anonymous), quality control criteria (e.g., protocols must be approved), and structural criteria (e.g., data must conform with a given standard data dictionary).

  * Note that a specification of release criteria might delegate to other specifications and approval mechanisms. For example, a specification of release criteria might state that a submission must be approved with respect to ethical criteria as stated in some version of an ethical criteria specification. A curator will then grant release approval if the submission has already been granted ethical approval by another curator, but will not check the details of the ethical criteria themselves.
  
  * Specifications of release criteria are versioned, to enable the criteria to be modified without confusing the status of previously released data. This is also intended to enable the WWARN database to migrate incrementally towards scricter release criteria as these are defined and agreed by the network.
  
  * Each WWARN module is expected to define its own release criteria.

==== Provenance & Derivation of Data ====

  * A key design goal is that the complete and true *derivation* of any data released to the WWARN database must be recorded. By derivation, we mean the complete sequence of actions and revisions that led from the data as submitted to the data in its released form, i.e., its provenance. 

  * A curator can upload revisions of submitted data. To ensure that the true derivation of any data revision is captured, the curator must explicitly assert the derivation of any new revision they make, i.e., they must select the version of the data (either submitter version or another curator version) that was taken as input to the curator's new revision. This also ensures that curators can go back and do work on versions of the submitted data other than the latest version, and an accurate audit trail of their activities will still be maintained. (I.e., for any one submission, the curators' revisions to the submitted data are assumed to form an arbitrarily branching tree, where the root of each tree is one of the submitter's revisions.)

  * A submitter can upload a revision of submitted data at any time. To keep things simple for a submitter, they do not have to assert the derivation of each new revision. (I.e., for any one submission, the submitter's revisions of the submitted data are assumed to form a single linear version series.)
  
----
=== Data Curation Use Cases ===

The use cases below provide a more detailed illustration of how a user will interact with the Chassis/WWARN system in the most commonly anticipated scenarios. The use cases *are not* intended to cover every possible scenario.

Note that some details of the use cases below are simplified, to avoid distracting from the key features of the use case that are relevant to Chassis/WWARN. For example, the reasons why a curator might need to make revisions to submitted data, and the nature of the revisions they might need to make, will be far more varied and subtle than are suggested below.

==== Notation Conventions ====

In the use cases below, letters A, B, C, etc., are used to help identify different revisions of submitted data, e.g., "the initial revision of the submitted data (A) was revised by the curator to create a new revision (B)". If the letter has the superscript "s" (e.g., A^s^), then the revision is linked to a standard data dictionary. If no superscript is present, the data is linked to a non-standard data dictionary.

==== Use Case: Curator Manages a Standard Data Dictionary ====

A curator creates a new standard data dictionary, provides a title and textual summary for the dictionary, links the dictionary to one or more modules, and uploads a file containing the initial version of the dictionary.

At a later time, the WWARN curators agree to make an update to this standard data dictionary, to incorporate some new fields as standard. The curator uploads a new file containing the revised version of the data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the changes.

==== Use Case: Curator Manages a Specification of Release Criteria ====

A curator creates a new specification of release criteria, provides a title and textual summary for the specification, links the specification to the module to which it applies, and uploads a file containing the initial version of the specification.

At a later time, the WWARN curators agree to make the release criteria more stringent, including new quality control criteria. The curator uploads a new file containing the revised version of the specificiation of release criteria, and enters a log message describing the changes.

The curators review all prior data submissions that were approved with respect to the old version of the release criteria, to determine if they also can be approved with respect to the updated version of the release criteria.

==== Use Case: Standard Submission, Requires No Curation ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission, where the submitted data is already linked by the submitter to a WWARN standard data dictionary. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator reviews the initial version of the submitted data (A^s^), and finds that no changes need to be made. She reviews the submitted data with respect to the latest version of the appropriate data release criteria, and asserts that the release criteria have been met.

The submitter sees that her initial version of the submitted data (A^s^) has been approved for release to the WWARN database, and that no other actions were taken.

==== Use Case: Curation of Standard Submission ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission, where the submitted data is already linked to a WWARN standard data dictionary. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A^s^), reviews it, and finds that some rows have missing data values. She removes the rows with missing data, uploads a new data file containing the revised data (B^s^), links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (A^s^), and links it to the standard data dictionary. She also enters a log message explaining what changes were made and why.

The assigned curator then reviews the submitted data (B^s^) with respect to the latest version of the appropriate data release criteria, and asserts that the release criteria have been met.

The submitter sees that her submission has been approved for release to the WWARN database, after the assigned curator made a revision (B^s^) to her initial version (A^s^). She downloads the curator's revision (B^s^) to inspect the changes.

==== Use Case: Standard Submission Requires Submitter Revision ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission, where the submitted data is already linked to a WWARN standard data dictionary. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A^s^), reviews it, and finds that some rows have data values that appear to be out of range. She decides to contact the submitter, and notify her of the problem.

The submitter realises that some errors were made in the initial version of the submitted data (A^s^). The submitter downloads her initial version of the submitted data (A^s^), fixes the errors, and uploads a new version of the submitted data (B^s^).

The assigned curator then reviews the submitted data (B^s^) with respect to the latest version of the appropriate data release criteria, and asserts that the release criteria have been met.

The submitter sees that her submission has been approved for release to the WWARN database, after she made a revision (B^s^) to her initial version (A^s^).

==== Use Case: Curation of Non-Standard Submission ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission with a new data dictionary. The data dictionary is not one of the WWARN standard data dictionaries. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A) and the initial version of the data dictionary. She finds that several rows appear to be missing some data values. She removes the rows with missing data, uploads her revised version of the submitted data (B), links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (A), links it to the non-standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the changes she has made and the reasons for making the changes.

The assigned curator then decides to map the submitted data onto the appropriate standard data dictionary. She downloads her curated revision of the submitted data (B), and downloads the latest version of the appropriate standard data dictionary. Using her favourite desktop data transformation tool, she creates a new data file conforming to the standard data dictionary. She then uploads this new data file (C^s^), links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (B), links it to the latest version of the standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the transformation she performed.

The assigned curator now believes the data is ready for release to the WWARN database. She reviews her standardised version of the submitted data (C^s^) with respect to the latest version of the WWARN data release criteria, and asserts that the release criteria have been met. The data are then made available for export to the WWARN database.

The submitter sees that her initial version of the submitted data (A) has undergone one curation revision (B, derived from A), one standardisation revision (C^s^, derived from B), and has been approved for release to the WWARN database.

==== Use Case: Non-Standard Submission, Curation and Repeated Standardisation ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission with a new data dictionary. The data dictionary is not one of the WWARN standard data dictionaries. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A) and makes a revision (B), without changing the structure of the data.

The assigned curator then decides to map the submitted data onto the appropriate standard data dictionary. She downloads her curated revision of the submitted data (B), and creates a new data file conforming to the appropriate standard data dictionary. She then uploads this new data file (C^s^), links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (B), links it to the latest version of the standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the transformation she performed.

The assigned curator now believes the data is ready for release to the WWARN database. She reviews her standardised version of the submitted data (C^s^) with respect to the latest version of the WWARN data release criteria, but finds some problems in the standardised data. She realises that the problems are due to the standardisation transformation she applied. She goes back to the curated, non-standard revision of the submitted data (B), and repeats her transformation, correcting the previous errors. She uploads this new standardised revision of the submitted data (D^s^), links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (B), links it to the latest version of the standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the transformation she performed.

The assigned curator reviews her corrected standardised revision of the submitted data (D^s^) with respect to the latest version of the appropriate data release criteria, and asserts that the release criteria have been met.

The submitter sees that her initial version of the submitted data (A) has undergone one curation revision (B, derived from A), one standardisation revision (C^s^, derived from B), a second standardisation revision (D^s^, derived from B), and has been approved for release to the WWARN database.

==== Use Case: Non-Standard Submission, Curation After Standardisation (1) ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission with a new data dictionary. The data dictionary is not one of the WWARN standard data dictionaries. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A), reviews it, and decides that there are some problems, but that they will be easier to deal with after the submission has been standardised. She creates a new data file (B^s^) conforming to the appropriate standard data dictionary, uploads it, links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (A), links it to the latest version of the standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the transformation she performed.

The assigned curator then creates a new revision (C^s^), derived from her standardised revision (B^s^), fixing the problems she identified earlier. She approves this new version (C^s^) for release.

The submitter sees that her initial version of the submitted data (A) has undergone one standardisation revision (B^s^, derived from A), one curation revision (C^s^, derived from B^s^), and has been approved for release to the WWARN database.

==== Use Case: Non-Standard Submission, Curation After Standardisation (2) ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission with a new data dictionary. The data dictionary is not one of the WWARN standard data dictionaries. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A), reviews it, and decides to map the file onto the appropriate standard data dictionary. She creates a new data file (B^s^), uploads it, links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (A), links it to the latest version of the standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the transformation she performed.

The assigned curator then reviews her standardised revision (B^s^) and finds some problems. She decides that the problems are best fixed by going back to the initial, non-standard version of the submitted data (A). She creates a new, non-standard revision of the submitted data (C), uploads it, links it to the version of the data from which it was derived (A), links it to the appropriate version of the non-standard data dictionary, and enters a log message.

The assigned curator then maps the new non-standard revision of the submitted data (C) onto the appropriate standard data dictionary. She creates a new data file (D^s^), uploads it, links it to the version of the submitted data from which it was derived (C), links it to the latest version of the standard data dictionary, and enters a log message describing the transformation she performed.

The assigned curator then approves her latest version of the standardised data (D^s^) for release.

The submitter sees that her initial version of the submitted data (A) has undergone one standardisation revision (B^s^, derived from A), one curation revision (C, derived from A), a second standardisation revision (D^s^, derived from C), and has been approved for release to the WWARN database.

==== Use Case: Curator Delegation ====

A submitter requests approval for a new submission with a new data dictionary. The data dictionary is not one of the WWARN standard data dictionaries. A gatekeeper approves the request and assigns a curator.

The assigned curator delegates the initial review of the submitted data to another curator who specialises in quality aspects of that type of data. The delegate curator downloads the initial version of the submitted data (A), reviews it, decides that some rows do not meet quality control criteria, removes them, and uploads a revised version of the submitted data (B), notifying the assigned curator that their task is complete.

The assigned curator then delegates the mapping of the data onto a standard data dictionary to a different curator, who specialises in transforming data and data standards. The delegate curator downloads the revised version of the submitted data (B), transforms them to conform to the latest version of the appropriate standard data dictionary, and uploads the transformed data (C^s^), notifying the assigned curator that their task is complete.

The assigned curator then delegates the final review of the submission with respect to the appropriate release criteria to third delegate curator. The delegate approves the standardised version of the submitted data (C^s^) for release.

==== Use Case: Coordinator Oversight of Curation and Standardisation Activities ====

A coordinator reviews a list of all submissions for a given module that have been approved by a gatekeeper, but have not yet been approved for release. She sees which of these have data linked to a standard data dictionary, and which do not. From those that do not, she selects one from the list to investigate in more detail.

For the selected submission, the coordinator reviews a log of all curation and standardisation activities for that submission. She sees that several curation revisions have been made to the submitted data, but that no standardised revisions have yet been made. She contacts the assigned curator to ask for more information.

==== Use Case: Curator Oversight of Curation & Standardisation Activities ====

A curator views a list of all submissions for which she is the assigned curator, and that have not yet been approved for release. From these, she then views those that have not yet been mapped onto a standard data dictionary. She selects a submission from this list, and begins working on it.

----
=== Data Curation & Standardisation Functional Requirements ===

==== (Curator) Creating a Standard Data Dictionary ====

  * A curator will be able to create a new standard data dictionary. This involves providing a title and textual summary for the new standard data dictionary, linking the dictionary to at least one module, and uploading a file containing the initial version of the data dictionary.

==== (Curator) Revising a Standard Data Dictionary ====

  * A curator will be able to upload a file containing a revised version of a standard data dictionary.

  * A curator will be able to view a version history for any standard data dictionary.

==== (Curator) Downloading a Standard Data Dictionary ====

  * A curator will be able to download any revision of a standard data dictionary.

==== (Curator) Creating a Specification of Release Criteria ====

  * A curator will be able to create a new specification of release criteria. This involves providing a title and textual summary for the new specification, linking the specification to exactly one module, and uploading a file containing the initial version of the specification.

N.B. there can be only one specification of release criteria per module.

==== (Curator) Revising a Specification of Release Criteria ====

  * A curator will be able to upload a file containing a revised version of a specification of release criteria.

  * A curator will be able to view a version history of any specification of release criteria.

==== (Curator) Downloading a Specification of Release Criteria ====

  * A curator will be able to download any revision of a specification of release criteria.

==== (Curator) Downloading Submitted Data ====

  * A curator will be able to download any version of the submitted data for any submission they are assigned to or have been delegated to work on.

==== (Curator) Revising Submitted Data ====

  * A curator will be able to upload a data file containing a new version of the submitted data, for any submission to which they have been assigned or delegated to work on. The curator must explicitly select which previous version of the submitted data they started work on, i.e., which previous version their new revision is most directly derived from. The curator will also be able to enter a log message describing the changes made.

==== (Curator) Linking Submitted Data With a Data Dictionary ====

  * A curator will be able to link a specific version of the submitted data to a specific version of a data dictionary (either standard or non-standard), for any submission to which they have been assigned or delegated to work. 

  * A curator will be able to change the data dictionary link for any submission they are assigned to or delegated to work on.

  * A curator will be able to view a history of changes made to the data dictionary link, for any submission they are assigned to or delegated to work on.

==== (Curator) Viewing Submitted Data Version History ====

  * A curator will be able to view a complete derivation tree of the submitted data, for any submission to which they have been assigned or delegated to work on. It will be clear which versions are linked to a standard data dictionary, and which are not.

==== (Curator) Reviewing Data for Release ====

  * A curator will be able to review submitted data w.r.t. some version of a specification of release criteria, and assert that the data either do or do not meet the specified criteria, for any submission to which they have been assigned.

==== (Curator) Delegation ====

  * An assigned curator will be able to delegate tasks to other curators, for any submission to which they have been assigned.

  * A curator will be able to indicate completion of a delegated tasks.

==== (Curator) Overview of Curation Activity ====

  * A curator will be able to view a list of all submissions that have been given gatekeeper approval but not yet given release approval, and a list of those that have been given release approval, for any version of release criteria, for any submission to which they are assigned. Those for which a revision is available conforming to a standard data dictionary will be clearly marked.

  * These lists can be grouped by module, study or submitter.

==== (Coordinator) Overview of Curation Activity ====

  * A coordinator will be able to view a list of all submissions that have been given gatekeeper approval but not yet given release approval, and a list of those that have been given release approval, for any version of release criteria. Those submissions for which a revision of the submitted data is available conforming to a standard data dictionary will be clearly marked.

  * These lists can be grouped by module, study or submitter.

----
== Candidate Requirements & Open Issues ==

  * Do curators need to be able to create non-standard data dictionaries, in addition to standard data dictionaries?
  
  * Do we need an additional role, e.g. "analyst", which has read-only permissions for submissions under curation, so e.g., can download data, review it, carry out analyses on it, but cannot make revisions?
  
  * Does a coordinator need the ability to re-assign the curator for a given submission?
  
  * Does a gatekeeper need the ability to re-assign the curator for a given submission?
  
  * Do we need some formal way for a curator to "pass the ball" back to a submitter for a given submission, so it is clear that the submission is awaiting some action by the submitter? (N.B. this is similar in principle to curators delegating tasks.)
  
  * Should we talk about "approved" data dictionaries, rather than "standard" data dictionaries? Would this be any clearer?
  
  * Do we need to provide any support for the social process by which a data dictionary becomes approved/standard, e.g., voting or ratification? Or is it OK to give all curators the ability to create approved/standard data dictionaries, and manage the process socially (outsite the system)?
  
  * Do submitters need the ability to nominate collaborators on a submission, i.e., other users who have same permissions w.r.t. the submission as its initial creator? Or perhaps, collaborators with limited permissions?
  
  * Do submitters need ability to make some data dictionaries private, i.e., not visible to anyone but themselves?
  
  * Do submitters need ability to make some studies private, i.e., not visible to anyone but themselves?
  
  * N.B. by the model above, approval of a submission by gatekeeper is "sticky", in the sense that once a submission has been approved by a gatekeeper, it doesn't matter if the submitter uploads revisions of the submitted data, the approval still applies, even if the data has changed completely. On the other hand, denial of a submission request is *not* sticky, but applies only to a specific request. Any number of submission requests can be made for any given submission. Is this model appropriate?
  
  * Should the system force a submitter to fill out some or all of the SSQ prior to making a submission request to a gatekeeper? Or is it OK to manage gatekeeper requirements for study metadata socially?
  
  * Do we need some sort of scoping mechanism to determine who can edit a data dictionary, e.g., by module or study?
  
  * Do gatekeepers need the ability to revoke a prior approval of a given submission?
  
  * Who is responsible for managing and operating the export/ingest of data between chassis/wwarn and the wwarn database? What system will implement that functionality?
  
  * Will export/ingest of data between chassis/wwarn and the wwarn database be push or pull?
  
  * Do submitters need the ability to pre-populate some fields of a study site questionnaire when creating a new study, based on values entered previously for a different study?
  
  * Do submitters need the ability to create a batch of new studies, rather than one at a time?
  
  * What happens if a submitter makes a request to a gatekeeper for a given submission, then uploads a revision of the submitted data, then makes a new request to a gatekeeper, before the first request has been fulfilled? This could be confusing/irritating for a gatekeeper if they find two requests pertaining to the same submission. Do submitters need the ability to cancel a pending request? Should there be some rule whereby a submission may have at most one pending request? 
  
  * Who makes sure that there are no duplicate study entries created? What happens if there are? Do we need some function for merging study entries?
  
  * Having WWARN module heads as gatekeepers may be inappropriate if some are in the field for long periods of time. Gatekeepers need to be fairly responsive.
  
  * The spec should mention entering log messages any time a revision is made to submitted data, or to a data dictionary.
  
  * Should we provide online support (e.g., forms) for creating and editing data dictionaries, in a predefined format, and disallow the upload of arbitrary files for data dictionaries? This is the ultimate goal anyway, so if we did this we would avoid having to manage legacy dictionaries when the new feature is rolled out. On the other hand, will it be possible to fit all possible data dictionaries into a single structure?
  
  * Logging in, and administration of user accounts and user roles is not mentioned.
  
  * What are the required & optional study metadata, common across modules? What are the required & optional study metadata, for each module?
  
  * Is it appropriate for any curators to create and revise specifications of release criteria? Or do we need a new role? What about the social process by which a revision to release criteria is accepted, does the system need to provide any support for that social process, e.g., voting or ratification?
  
  * Is it appropriate for any curators to review and approve submissions for release? Or do we need a specific role?
  
  * 